Initial ide where the drone uses markers as waypoints
In regard to the marker pose following approach the initial idea was to make a small aruco board  of size 2*3 (six markers)
and make them behave as a local coordinate system where the drone could shift betweem these local coordinate systems
to be able to follow a giving predefined route. Here the target pose would be the center of the aruco board (origin) where 
the system would shift between aruco boards everytime a new board was seen in order to be able to generate a trajectory between aruco boards.
An add-on to this approach was to give an offset in the direction were the drone had to go e.g plus one meter if forward, -1 backwards etc. This 
means that the drone would always move in a curtain direction with smooth movements. However, a number of issues were related to this approach 

Issuies:
	1: Everytime a shift between aruco boards were performed, the system became shortly unstable because the local coordinate system was changed.
	   This caused a rapid change in the estimation of the acruco marker in the local coordinate system which effected the Kalman filter and yielded
	   the controller to perform quite purly. 
	2: To enable a stable flight, an offset was giving to the target position in the direction where the drone had to navigate. This means that the 
	   route had to be preconfigured e.g flight (forward, yaw, aruco_id), (forward, yaw, start aruco id), (left, yaw, aruco_id) etc. This was not scalable.

Gains:
	1: Using this approach a very large path could be generated because the aruco board could be reused during flight. This is a gain of using this approach 
	   because the aruco board dicionary of the aruco boards only got a max size of 1000 markers e.g. max dimentions of 30*30 - 40*40 in size. Ofcause the size 
	   of the marker can be made bigger to enable flight over larger areas, but this comes with a cost of a larger altitude in order to detect the markers and 
	   hence to make the pose estimation.

Maybe this approach could used together with a big aruco board if one wants to cover a very larger area where shifts/transitions between markers are only performed
a few number of times. 
